- [Instructor] Okay now, lets do a very quick
Tag Handler Development in our project.
So what we're going to do is
we are going to develop a custom tag
which will format a date,
according to a particular format.
Of course, now you have this tag in JSTL already,
we don't need that but
this is just for a demo purpose
that we're going to develop this
small tag of our own.
Okay?
So the first thing that we have to do is
we've to define the .tld file
which is of course a tag library descriptor,
it's an XML file.
So lets write that out first.
Lets go to a project.
And we need to create that file under WEB-INF
so I'm going to right click here,
and call it as an XML file,
and give it a name, so appTags.tld
There you go.
Now, this is of course an XML file
and the tags that you're going
to write in this XML file are going to
come from a namespace.
So that namespace has been provided on the slide.
I'm just going to copy that
and paste it here and then of course,
end that taglib.
Lets do more readable code, so yeah,
that's what it is going to be.
So that's the namespace from which
all the tags are going to come in
so that I can write them under the taglib out here.
So lets get started with this file.
The first thing that I want to define is
what is the version of the tag library
that I'm developing.
So right now it is just the start
so I'm going to say tlib-version,
that's the tag and I'll just say 1.0
So this is just the first version
that I'm trying to create for my project.
The next one is,
you also need to specify which JSP version
this tag will run on to.
So I'm going to say jsp-version,
lets say 2.0
You can also put it to 2.1, no matter.
Then of course,
lets give it a short name.
So I'm going to write one more tag called short-name
and lets say app tag handler.
Just a short name.
Next, I may choose to give a description
for this tag library.
So I can say,
this is the
custom tag
library for hplus.
Right, that's our application.
Okay, what else can we define?
We can define the display name.
Of course this is really your choice,
if you really want the display name.
It's not a mandatory option.
So, hplus tag library.
That will be the display name.
Now the important thing that you have to
define here is the URI.
So if you observed in our tag library demos that we did,
as a part of JSTL,
we included the taglib directive on the JSP.
And the taglib directive had URI as
one of the attributes which was going to
specify the path of the tag library.
So this could be a logical name.
So http://www.hplus.com
and lets say, /apptags.
Just a logical URI path for this tag library.
Okay, so now that we've done this,
lets go ahead and define our tags.
I'm going to have the tag tag.
You know what it is.
It's a tag element inside this XML file.
And this is basically to define
the information about my custom tag.
So what is the name that my custom tag
is going to have,
what are the attributes to that tag, et cetera.
So that's what we're going to define now.
So under that, the first thing that you have to
define is the name that you want to give to the tag.
So I am going to say, formatDate, lets say.
And of course, what is the tag handler class.
So you're going to write...
Of course, in this application we're going to
write a tag handler class,
so we have to give the fully qualified class name
of that class.
So I'm just going to embed the file path
com.test.customtags
and AppHandler.
So you may be wondering where this is coming from?
We have not yet created this class,
do not worry about it.
We're just going to create this class in a while.
Lets complete this tag library descriptor file
and then we're going to create this in our build path.
So this is just a placeholder
that I'm right now giving.
The next on is we need to define attributes for this tag.
So I'm going to go ahead
and write down the attribute tag.
And lets see what I have inside it.
I have a name to that attribute, right?
So lets call it, the date.
And, what is this describing?
So whenever you write a tag,
you of course feed the extra information as we said,
in the form of attributes.
So this is one of the attributes.
So I want to format a date.
So in order to format a date, what all do I need?
I need a proper format and I need the date
that I need to format, right?
So those are the two attributes
that I'm going to have for this tag.
So the name is tag.
And I would want to assign values
in the form of expressions to this tag.
So lets say I want to evaluate an expression
using the expression element on JSP
and assign it to this attribute.
I should be able to that.
For that, you'll have to explicitly set,
rtexprvalue, that's the attribute,
to true,
so that this attribute can accept anything
in the form of an expression.
Because that expression is going to be
dynamically evaluated,
you need to specify in the tag library descriptor
that this attribute is capable of
evaluating an expression dynamically.
Which is why I'm setting this to true.
Lets define the other attribute.
And under that, lets give it a name first.
So the name of this attribute will be
the format that I need for that date
and yeah, that is okay.
And after this,
the last thing that we need to define is that,
the body content of this tag.
There is no body content for this tag,
so I'm going to define that here.
And I'm going to say that it is empty.
So we don't have any body content of this tag.
This is just a tag and it is just
going to have our two attributes,
the date attribute, the format attribute
and once we write that tag on the JSP,
it's going to just format that date
according to the format that we have specified.
That's all.
So there is no body to this tag, right?
So that's empty. That's what I'm saying.
Okay so, that is the tag library descriptor file.
Now lets just go ahead and quickly
create this AppHandler class.
So I'm going to create a folder on the test folder,
which is called customtags.
And I'm going to take the name of this class
and quickly make that under the customtags folder.
Yes.
Okay so,
so do you see now that the warning
on line number 15 has vanished?
Now that it is able to find the AppHandler class
in the build path, we're good.
So lets go ahead in AppHandler and as we said,
the simpler version is of course,
to extend this SimpleTagSupport class.
So there we go.
It's available in the javax.servelet.jsp.tagext.
tagext is tag extensions.
So that's the class that we're going to extend
and now what have we to do in this?
The first thing that we have to do is
the attributes that we have defined for the tag.
Lets go to appTags.tld.
The attributes that we have defined
are format and the date.
So both the attributes are going to go as
instance variables in that tag handler class.
So lets do that as the first thing.
So I'm going to say, private String format.
So format is going to be of the String type.
And date is of course going to be of the Date type.
So lets do that and generate
the getters and setters for this.
In the Eclipse IDE, there is a shortcut for that.
You can just right click, say Source,
and then say Generate Getters and Setters,
select both the properties and say OK
and there you go.
Your getters setters are generated for you.
And as a part of the logic of that tag,
what have you to do?
You have to provide an implemenation
to the dotag method.
That's the one.
So lets implement that method,
lets get rid of these parent calls.
Yeah, so it could possibly throw you
a JspException and IOExcception in case
you're trying to write a response back to the client.
It doesn't return anything, it's a public method.
And now lets go ahead and implement this method.
So what are we going to do?
We're going to basically format this date
in the format that has been specified
and then we're going to write that formatted date,
back to the JSP.
In order to write that formatted date back to the JSP,
we need a context.
So that context is going to be the surrounding scope.
The surrounding scope for the JSP
is going to be the JspContext.
So we're going to take that JspContext
and then we'll take the JspWriter object
and then we'll write that date back to the client.
So we're going to do all of this, one by one.
The first thing that we've to do is,
get the SimpleDateFormat API
and get a dateFormatter.
So basically, trying to define a format here.
So that SimpleDateFormat is going to be a
constructor call to which I'm going to insert
the format that the attribute will give me.
So this format variable that we have,
is going to go and sit inside
the constructor call of SimpleDateFormat.
So once we do that,
what we've to is we have to get
the context as I said, the surrounding context.
So that is going to be given by PageContext
and the method for that is getJspContext.
So that will give you the JspContext.
And of course, we'll have to cast this.
So lets do that and we're done.
Once we get this, what we're going to do?
We're going to take the out object.
If you recall the discussion that we've had previously,
out object belongs to the JspWriter class
and that object is basically used
to write something on the JSP page.
So the way you had printWriter for servelet,
we have JspWriter for Jsp.
So I'm going to take that object,
so lets say JspWriter and we can get that
on the page context.
So do you also remember and recall that
page context is that object which has got
a reference to all the other implicit objects.
So when I say getOut,
it will return me the JspWriter object.
Once I do that, what I have to do is
I have to say writer.println
and what am I going to print?
I'm going to take that dateFormatter
and I'm going to invoke the format API
and pass on that date that I have got
in the form of the attribute.
That's all.
So just to summarize,
I am having a tag which is going to format a date.
The name of that tag is format date.
It has got two attributes,
format, in which we need to format the date
and the actual date which needs to get formatted.
So we're going to use the SsimpleDateFormat API
that's on line number 31,
we need to include that format provided in the tag
and then format it and then just print it
on the JSP page.
So our Tag Handler class is now ready with us.
So lets take a look at the next steps
in the next video.